World War II was going on, getting worse and worse.
We got the evacuation notice and we had to leave.
People were terrible things to people.
We were afraid.
No matter where you looked, there were really possessions, material things.
And everybody threw more things and nobody picked anything up.
But they cared where things that would save their life at the moment, something to eat.
I really didn't know how I would spend my life at that time, right?
But I knew that I would not use it to get rich, to work and work for what.
I wasn't dedicated to Jova at that time.
Even so, I knew Jova wasn't afraid to him.
And I'm sure he helped us.
In 1946, we found out my father was alive, my sister was alive.
We were very privileged to be united as a family.
And at that time, my father was near Berlin.
And so we started all over again.
My father, he found the book, The Heart of God, and started to study the Bible with my sister and myself.
And little by little, he started a congregation at our house.
Now, coming to know Jova, learning about the paradise, I wanted to tell people about it.
I knew I would have a purpose in life.
I heard about Gilead, and he said, oh boy, that's where I want to go.
I want to be a missionary, tell the people about the paradise.
The official ban on the waitresses in the eastern zone of Germany came in 1950.
But months before, we were already being observed.
My father got literature for the congregation.
Many times he would send me on a bicycle through the forest with a literature.
So it's interesting, when you're in that situation, you might go to prison.
You would just don't worry about it.
You'd trust in Jova.
And you'd just go ahead.
And that's what our family did.
Then my father went to the branch, and they told him, Max, they said, assembly in Berlin.
And if you come, don't bring a Bible, don't bring a song, or book, bring nothing.
So when my father came back from that meeting, he told us, and he said, well, if we go, it looks like we can't come back.
So I said, I'm going.
And my mother said, I'm going.
So we all made up a mind we would go.
That means we would get prepared to leave everything again, right?
So I just put one dress on top of the other, took the bicycle and I'll be right.
Shortly after we left, a police car came and they looked for us.
It was a special arrangement and privilege to be at a convention in Berlin.
So we all thanked Jova that we were there to listen to and be strengthened that spiritual food.
And after the convention, we were recognized as refugees, got out on a plane to West Germany.
My father said, well, now here, for the second time, we lost all the material things we had in Germany here.
So we better immigrate to the United States, where my sister was, that we all would be together.
And I said, good, I get close to Gilead.
And then I was privileged to attend the 29th class of Gilead.
And my assignment was Brazil.
And it was like paradise.
And there I met my husband who was my circuit overseer.
And so I was privileged to travel with him.
That was a great, great blessing.
Oh, money can pay for the blessings I hear.
Life is the most important thing there is because no matter how much you have, you can't prolong your life.
And then learning about Jova who gave his son to save us from all the terrible things.
Why wouldn't you use your life to serve him?
Trust in Jova.
And do what you can do to serve him from your heart.
He will never leave you.